=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Test::EOL - Check the correct line endings in your project

=head1 VERSION

version 2.00

=head1 SYNOPSIS

C<Test::EOL> lets you check for the presence of trailing whitespace and/or
windows line endings in your perl code. It reports its results in standard
C<Test::Simple> fashion:

  use Test::EOL tests => 1;
  eol_unix_ok( 'lib/Module.pm', 'Module is ^M free');

and to add checks for trailing whitespace:

  use Test::EOL tests => 1;
  eol_unix_ok( 'lib/Module.pm', 'Module is ^M and trailing whitespace free', { trailing_whitespace => 1 });

Module authors can include the following in a t/eol.t and have C<Test::EOL>
automatically find and check all perl files in a module distribution:

  use Test::EOL;
  all_perl_files_ok();

or

  use Test::EOL;
  all_perl_files_ok( @mydirs );

and if authors would like to check for trailing whitespace:

  use Test::EOL;
  all_perl_files_ok({ trailing_whitespace => 1 });

or

  use Test::EOL;
  all_perl_files_ok({ trailing_whitespace => 1 }, @mydirs );

or

  use Test::More;
  use Test::EOL 'no_test';
  all_perl_files_ok();
  done_testing;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module scans your project/distribution for any perl files (scripts,
modules, etc) for the presence of windows line endings.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 all_perl_files_ok

  all_perl_files_ok( [ \%options ], [ @directories ] )

Applies C<eol_unix_ok()> to all perl files found in C<@directories> (and sub
directories). If no <@directories> is given, the starting point is the current
working directory, as tests are usually run from the top directory in a typical
CPAN distribution. A perl file is *.pl or *.pm or *.pod or *.t or a file starting
with C<#!...perl>

Valid C<\%options> currently are:

=over

=item * trailing_whitespace

By default Test::EOL only looks for Windows (CR/LF) line-endings. Set this
to true to raise errors if any kind of trailing whitespace is present in
the file.

=item * all_reasons

Normally Test::EOL reports only the first error in every file (given that
a text file originated on Windows will fail every single line). Set this
a true value to register a test failure for every line with an error.

=back

If the test plan is defined:

  use Test::EOL tests => 3;
  all_perl_files_ok();

the total number of files tested must be specified.

=head2 eol_unix_ok

  eol_unix_ok ( $file [, $text] [, \%options ] )

Run a unix EOL check on C<$file>. For a module, the path (lib/My/Module.pm) or the
name (My::Module) can be both used. C<$text> is the diagnostic label emitted after
the C<ok>/C<not ok> TAP output. C<\%options> takes the same values as described in
L</all_perl_files_ok>.

=head1 EXPORT

A list of functions that can be exported.  You can delete this section
if you don't export anything, such as for a purely object-oriented module.

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Shamelessly ripped off from L<Test::NoTabs>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item *

L<Test::More>

=item *

L<Test::Pod>

=item *

L<Test::Distribution>

=item *

L<Test:NoWarnings>

=item *

L<Test::NoTabs>

=item *

L<Module::Install::AuthorTests>

=back

=head1 SUPPORT

Bugs may be submitted through L<the RT bug tracker|https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Test-EOL>
(or L<bug-Test-EOL@rt.cpan.org|mailto:bug-Test-EOL@rt.cpan.org>).

There is also a mailing list available for users of this distribution, at
L<http://lists.perl.org/list/perl-qa.html>.

There is also an irc channel available for users of this distribution, at
L<C<#perl> on C<irc.perl.org>|irc://irc.perl.org/#perl-qa>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Tomas Doran (t0m) <bobtfish@bobtfish.net>

=head1 CONTRIBUTORS

=for stopwords Karen Etheridge Olivier Mengué Peter Rabbitson Florian Ragwitz Dagfinn Ilmari Mannsåker Arthur Axel 'fREW' Schmidt Kent Fredric

=over 4

=item *

Karen Etheridge <ether@cpan.org>

=item *

Olivier Mengué <dolmen@cpan.org>

=item *

Peter Rabbitson <ribasushi@cpan.org>

=item *

Florian Ragwitz <rafl@debian.org>

=item *

Dagfinn Ilmari Mannsåker <ilmari@ilmari.org>

=item *

Arthur Axel 'fREW' Schmidt <frioux@gmail.com>

=item *

Kent Fredric <kentfredric@gmail.com>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

This software is copyright (c) 2009 by Tomas Doran.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
